pdftotext(1)                General Commands Manual               pdftotext(1)



NAME
       pdftotext  -  Portable Document Format (PDF) to text converter (version
       4.04)

SYNOPSIS
       pdftotext [options] [PDF-file [text-file]]

DESCRIPTION
       Pdftotext converts Portable Document Format (PDF) files to plain text.

       Pdftotext reads the PDF file, PDF-file, and writes a text  file,  text-
       file.   If  text-file  is not specified, pdftotext converts file.pdf to
       file.txt.  If text-file is '-', the text is sent to stdout.

CONFIGURATION FILE
       Pdftotext reads a configuration file at startup.   It  first  tries  to
       find the user's private config file, ~/.xpdfrc.  If that doesn't exist,
       it looks for a system-wide config file, typically /etc/xpdfrc (but this
       location  can  be  changed when pdftotext is built).  See the xpdfrc(5)
       man page for details.

OPTIONS
       Many of the following options can be set with configuration  file  com-
       mands.  These are listed in square brackets with the description of the
       corresponding command line option.

       -f number
              Specifies the first page to convert.

       -l number
              Specifies the last page to convert.

       -layout
              Maintain (as best as possible) the original physical  layout  of
              the  text.   The  default is to 'undo' physical layout (columns,
              hyphenation, etc.) and output the text in reading order.  If the
              -fixed  option is given, character spacing within each line will
              be determined by the specified character pitch.

       -simple
              Similar to -layout, but optimized for simple  one-column  pages.
              This  mode  will do a better job of maintaining horizontal spac-
              ing, but it will only work properly  with  a  single  column  of
              text.

       -simple2
              Similar to -simple, but handles slightly rotated text (e.g., OCR
              output) better.  Only works for pages with a  single  column  of
              text.

       -table Table mode is similar to physical layout mode, but optimized for
              tabular data, with the goal of keeping rows and columns  aligned
              (at  the  expense of inserting extra whitespace).  If the -fixed
              option is given, character spacing  within  each  line  will  be
              determined by the specified character pitch.

       -lineprinter
              Line  printer  mode  uses  a  strict  fixed-character-pitch  and
              -height layout.  That is, the page is broken into  a  grid,  and
              characters  are  placed  into that grid.  If the grid spacing is
              too small for the actual characters, the result is extra  white-
              space.   If the grid spacing is too large, the result is missing
              whitespace.  The grid spacing can be specified using the  -fixed
              and  -linespacing  options.  If one or both are not given on the
              command line, pdftotext  will  attempt  to  compute  appropriate
              value(s).

       -raw   Keep the text in content stream order.  Depending on how the PDF
              file was generated, this may or may not be useful.

       -fixed number
              Specify the character pitch (character width),  in  points,  for
              physical  layout,  table, or line printer mode.  This is ignored
              in all other modes.

       -linespacing number
              Specify the line spacing, in  points,  for  line  printer  mode.
              This is ignored in all other modes.

       -clip  Text which is hidden because of clipping is removed before doing
              layout, and then added back in.  This can be helpful for  tables
              where clipped (invisible) text would overlap the next column.

       -nodiag
              Diagonal text, i.e., text that is not close to one of the 0, 90,
              180, or 270 degree axes, is discarded.  This is useful  to  skip
              watermarks drawn on top of body text, etc.

       -enc encoding-name
              Sets  the  encoding  to  use for text output.  The encoding-name
              must be defined with the  unicodeMap  command  (see  xpdfrc(5)).
              The  encoding name is case-sensitive.  This defaults to "Latin1"
              (which is a built-in encoding).  [config file: textEncoding]

       -eol unix | dos | mac
              Sets the end-of-line convention to use for text output.  [config
              file: textEOL]

       -nopgbrk
              Don't  insert  a page breaks (form feed character) at the end of
              each page.  [config file: textPageBreaks]

       -bom   Insert a Unicode byte order marker (BOM) at  the  start  of  the
              text output.

       -marginl number
              Specifies  the  left margin, in points.  Text in the left margin
              (i.e., within that many points of the left edge of the page)  is
              discarded.  The default value is zero.

       -marginr number
              Specifies the right margin, in points.  Text in the right margin
              (i.e., within that many points of the right edge of the page) is
              discarded.  The default value is zero.

       -margint number
              Specifies  the  top  margin,  in points.  Text in the top margin
              (i.e., within that many points of the top edge of the  page)  is
              discarded.  The default value is zero.

       -marginb number
              Specifies the bottom margin, in points.  Text in the bottom mar-
              gin (i.e., within that many points of the  bottom  edge  of  the
              page) is discarded.  The default value is zero.

       -opw password
              Specify  the  owner  password  for the PDF file.  Providing this
              will bypass all security restrictions.

       -upw password
              Specify the user password for the PDF file.

       -verbose
              Print a status message (to stdout) before processing each  page.
              [config file: printStatusInfo]

       -q     Don't print any messages or errors.  [config file: errQuiet]

       -cfg config-file
              Read config-file in place of ~/.xpdfrc or the system-wide config
              file.

       -listencodings
              List all available text output encodings, then exit.

       -v     Print copyright and version information, then exit.

       -h     Print usage information,  then  exit.   (-help  and  --help  are
              equivalent.)

BUGS
       Some  PDF  files contain fonts whose encodings have been mangled beyond
       recognition.  There is no way (short of OCR) to extract text from these
       files.

EXIT CODES
       The Xpdf tools use the following exit codes:

       0      No error.

       1      Error opening a PDF file.

       2      Error opening an output file.

       3      Error related to PDF permissions.

       99     Other error.

AUTHOR
       The  pdftotext software and documentation are copyright 1996-2022 Glyph
       & Cog, LLC.

SEE ALSO
       xpdf(1),  pdftops(1),  pdftohtml(1),  pdfinfo(1),  pdffonts(1),  pdfde-
       tach(1), pdftoppm(1), pdftopng(1), pdfimages(1), xpdfrc(5)
       http://www.xpdfreader.com/



                                  18 Apr 2022                     pdftotext(1)
